 Maps and Data Transformation in Kotlin

Objective: To practice working with Kotlin maps and data transformation.

Task: In this assignment, students will write a Kotlin program that reads data from a CSV file containing information about countries and their populations. They will perform the following tasks:

Step 1: Create a Kotlin File (5 points)

Instruct students to create a new Kotlin file (e.g., CountryPopulation.kt) for this assignment.
Step 2: Read CSV Data (10 points)

Provide students with a CSV file containing country names and populations. Instruct them to read this data into a map, where the country name is the key, and the population is the value.
kotlin
Copy code
val countryPopulations = mapOf(
    /* Read data from the CSV file and populate the map */
)
Step 3: Filter by Population Threshold (15 points)

Ask students to use lambdas and map functions to filter out countries with populations below a certain threshold (e.g., 10 million).
Step 4: Transform to List of Strings (20 points)

Encourage students to use map functions to transform the map into a list of strings. Each string should contain the country name and population.
Step 5: Display Results (10 points)

Students should display the list of strings, showing the country name and population for countries above the population threshold.
Step 6: Documentation (10 points)

Instruct students to include comments in their code to explain the purpose of each step and how they used maps and lambdas to achieve the desired results.
Step 7: Submission (10 points)

Students should submit their Kotlin code file (e.g., CountryPopulation.kt) along with the input CSV file and a brief description of how they processed the data and transformed it into the desired format.
Grading Criteria:

Proper reading of data from the CSV file.

Correct population filtering using lambdas and map functions.

Accurate transformation of the map into a list of strings.

Correct display of results.

Inclusion of comments to explain code segments.