 Sets and Distinct Values in Kotlin

Objective: To explore Kotlin sets and distinct values.

Task: In this assignment, students will work with sets of data. Specifically, they will create a Kotlin program that reads a list of product IDs from a file and performs the following tasks:

Step 1: Create a Kotlin File (5 points)

Instruct students to create a new Kotlin file (e.g., ProductSets.kt) for this assignment.
Step 2: Read Product IDs (10 points)

Provide students with two text files containing product IDs, one for List A and one for List B. Instruct them to read these product IDs into separate sets.
kotlin
Copy code
val listA = setOf( /* Read product IDs from file for List A */ )
val listB = setOf( /* Read product IDs from file for List B */ )
Step 3: Remove Duplicates (15 points)

Ask students to use sets to remove duplicates from each list.
Step 4: Find Common Products (20 points)

Instruct students to use sets and lambdas to find the common products between List A and List B.
Step 5: Find Unique Products (20 points)

Encourage students to use sets and lambdas to find products that are unique to each list. This includes products that are present in List A but not in List B and vice versa.
Step 6: Display Results (10 points)

Students should display the distinct values in List A, List B, the common products, and the unique products for each list.
Step 7: Documentation (10 points)

Ask students to include comments in their code to explain the purpose of each step and how they used sets and lambdas to achieve the desired results.
Step 8: Submission (10 points)

Students should submit their Kotlin code file (e.g., ProductSets.kt) along with the input text files and a brief description of how they processed the product IDs using sets and lambdas.
Grading Criteria:

Proper reading of product IDs from input files.

Successful removal of duplicates using sets.

Correct identification of common and unique products.

Accurate display of results.

Inclusion of comments to explain code segments.